Documentation update: Update 4.custom-session-data.md (#206)
sidebase/nuxt-auth: docs/content/5.recipes/4.custom-session-data.md

      }
      return Promise.resolve(token);
    },
    // Callback whenever session is checked, see https://next-auth.js.org/configuration/callbacks#session-callback
    session: async ({session, token}) => {
      (session as any).role = token.role;
      (session as any).uid = token.id;
      return Promise.resolve(session);
    },
  },
  ..., // other config
  providers: [...], // Your provider config
})
```
Notice that in the `jwt` callback we pass both the access_token and the role but in the session callback we leave out the access_token and we only pass the role since this will expose jwt on the frontend through the session object. This would be the recommendable approach, but you can pass it to the session if needed.

After that you can access the new fields in the data portion of the session object:

```
const { status, data } = useSession(); 

console.log(data);

```

output:
```
{ "user": { "name": "xxxxxxx", "email": "xxxxx@xxxxx.gr" }, "expires": "2023-02-28T20:36:12.584Z", "role": "admin", "uid": 1 }
```

The access_token can be access as:

```
import { getToken } from '#auth'

const token = await getToken({ event })

console.log(token.jwt);
```

> Please Notice that with this approach there is no need to use profile function or override the types next-auth.

Reviewer: oh wow, that's nice, let's phrase it differently though as futurre readers will not know about the past approach:
```md
With this approach `data` will automatically be correctly typed.
```

Author: Thank you, I will make the changes tomorrow

Thanks to 
- [@JoaoPedroAS51 from Github](https://github.com/JoaoPedroAS51) for his contribution here: https://github.com/sidebase/nuxt-auth/issues/61#issuecomment-1330747199

> - [@pvlastaridis from Github](https://github.com/pvlastaridis) for his contribution here: https://github.com/sidebase/nuxt-auth/issues/148#issuecomment-1407490921

Reviewer: you can also thank yourself here (:

Author: No need, I am just adapting the solution to the docs. I am just grateful of the splendid work everyone is doing.

This guide explains how to add custom data to the user session.

To expand / change / customize the session data you need to to follow the following steps:

> 1. Return the custom data in the Authorize function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Return the custom data in the `authorize` function
```

    CredentialsProvider.default({
    ...
      async authorize(credentials: any) {
        const data = {
          user: {
            name: 'John Doe',
            email: 'john@email.com',
            id: 1,
            role: 'admin'
          },
          token: '123456890',
        }

        if (data.user) {
          const u = {
            id: data.user.id,
            name: data.user.username,
            email: data.user.email,
            access_token: data.token, // additional field
            role: response.user.role // additional field
          };
          return u;
        } else {
          throw createError({
            statusCode: 403,
            statusMessage: "Credentials not working",
          });
        }
      },
    )}
   ]
   ... // other config

```
We can see the new fields in the return object `u` `role` and `access_token`. Now we need to pass them in the callbacks.

## Add callbacks to the `NuxtAuthProvider` to alter the session data

First, you must add jwt and session callbacks to [the `NuxtAuthHandler`](/nuxt-auth/configuration/nuxt-auth-handler):
```ts
// file: ~/server/api/auth/[...].ts
export default NuxtAuthHandler({

> ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // ... remainder of your config ...
```

  callbacks: {
    // Callback when the JWT is created / updated, see https://next-auth.js.org/configuration/callbacks#jwt-callback
    jwt: async ({token, user}) => {
      const isSignIn = user ? true : false;
      if (isSignIn) {
        token.jwt = user ? (user as any).access_token || '' : '';
        token.id = user ? user.id || '' : '';
        token.role = user ? (user as any).role || '' : '';
      }
      return Promise.resolve(token);
    },
    // Callback whenever session is checked, see https://next-auth.js.org/configuration/callbacks#session-callback
    session: async ({session, token}) => {
      (session as any).role = token.role;
      (session as any).uid = token.id;
      return Promise.resolve(session);
    },
  },
  ..., // other config
  providers: [...], // Your provider config
})
```

> Notice that in the `jwt` callback we pass both the access_token and the role but in the session callback we leave out the access_token and we only pass the role since this will expose jwt on the frontend through the session object. This would be the recommendable approach, but you can pass it to the session if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that in the `jwt` callback we pass both the `access_token` and the `role` but in the session callback we leave out the `access_token` and we only pass the role since this would expose the token on the frontend through the session object. Exposing the `access_token` is not recommended, but you can pass it to the session if needed.
```

After that you can access the new fields in the data portion of the session object:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts
```

const { status, data } = useSession(); 

console.log(data);

```

output:
```
{ "user": { "name": "xxxxxxx", "email": "xxxxx@xxxxx.gr" }, "expires": "2023-02-28T20:36:12.584Z", "role": "admin", "uid": 1 }
```

> The access_token can be access as:
> 
> ```
> import { getToken } from '#auth'
> 
> const token = await getToken({ event })
> 
> console.log(token.jwt);
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
